---
layout: post
title: Add Fun to Your Running With This Training
---
This weeks training of the week is one of my favorite trainings. What I like the most of it its the flexible part. For those non runners the name might sound weird, but almost every runner nows it.

## Fartleks
Fartleks is Swedish for “Speed Play”. It’s a training invented by [Gösta Holmér](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gösta_Holmér) in 1937. It’s a mixed of continuous and interval training. It’s design to combine aerobic and anaerobic capabilities. **That means you work both endurance and speed in the same training.** You accomplish this by varying the intensity, duration and distance fo your “Surges” or Fartleks while running.

Whats the best part about Fartleks? You can do them however you like. This is an ultra versatile training. If you are a beginner you can start by doing walk-jog schema. If you are a more avid runner you can use infinite different combinations.

### Unstructured VS Structured
Fartleks are by nature an unstructured training. That means you can run as fast as you want for as long as you like, and then come back to a more relaxed easy pace. **This specially fun when running in groups. this way you can exchange the lead an vary the speed and duration with every different “player”.**

You can also have a more “interval training” style if you choose the structured way. For example a 1-1 scheme, where you do 1 minute of hard pace, and 1 minute of easy pace. **This way is great for measuring progress in your speed and endurance.**

**The important part about Fatleks is not to over rest in the easy part.** After all you want your endurance to improve too. Chose unstructured for a more free style, or structured for a more “track style” training.