---
layout: post
title: Making The Best Out of a Bad Week
---
Not all days are good. Some training days feel so long and hard you just want to be over. Your pre-workout mood can have a powerful effect on your performing. Thats why is important to have your emotions in check when tackling a training session.

If you are having a bad day, a bad week or a bad month try out these methods to get your mood back in training mode:

### Review Your Goals.

Assuming you already have one, remembering yourself why all your hard work is for will help you to refocus. If it’s a long term goal (a new PB, lost weight, be healthy) you may need a more short term goal to help you get in the mood.

>Mesure succes in every possible way – Nike Running Club

Having achivments in your training plan will help improve your confidence in your training. Set realistic goals for your week and make them happen.

### Step back for a couple days.

Some times you’r bad mood or hard time during your workout can be a sign of over training. Listen to your body. Taking a day or two off can be repairing, it can help to reduce the risk of injury. A couple days off will help you’r body to recover for hard training and will give your energy back.

**Make sure not to take many breaks because it can affect your training plan.**

### Mix it Up.

Must runners are used to strike training plans. Long runs on weekends, track on Tuesday, Tempo runs on Thursday, repeat week after week. If you are used to a training plan you know the feeling. Change the plan for couple days or a week and find variations of your typical workouts. You can try a couple things:

* Variation workouts; take your usual run and add tempo sections, Fartleeks, intervals. Play around and find something that works for you and feel right.
* Try a different sport; Yoga, Swimming, Cross-fit, Bike, Basketball. Get out of your confort zone to get better results.
* [Read this post (In Spanish)](https://morethanrunners.wordpress.com/2016/02/10/de-vuelta-al-entrenamiento-3-formas-de-mantenerte-motivado/)